### [278. First Bad Version](https://leetcode.com/problems/first-bad-version/)



You are a product manager and currently leading a team to develop a new product. Unfortunately, the latest version of your product fails the quality check. Since each version is developed based on the previous version, all the versions after a bad version are also bad.

Suppose you have `n` versions `[1, 2, ..., n]` and you want to find out the first bad one, which causes all the following ones to be bad.

You are given an API `bool isBadVersion(version)` which returns whether `version` is bad. Implement a function to find the first bad version. You should minimize the number of calls to the API.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** n = 5, bad = 4
**Output:** 4
**Explanation:**
call isBadVersion(3) -> false
call isBadVersion(5) -> true
call isBadVersion(4) -> true
Then 4 is the first bad version.

**Example 2:**

**Input:** n = 1, bad = 1
**Output:** 1

### Best Practice

bf search

```python
# The isBadVersion API is already defined for you.
# def isBadVersion(version: int) -> bool:

class Solution:
    def firstBadVersion(self, n: int) -> int:
        left, right = 1, n
        while  left < right:
            mid = left + (right - left ) // 2  # mid is smaller or equal
            if isBadVersion(mid):
                right = mid
            else:
                left = mid + 1
        return left
```

#### Approaches

We use two pointers, **left** and **right**, to define the search range. We keep dividing the range in half and checking the middle point **mid**. If the **mid version is bad**, then we set the **new right boundary to mid**, effectively narrowing the search range. If the **mid version is not bad**, then we set the **new left boundary to mid + 1**, again narrowing the search range. The loop continues until **left and right become equal**, which means we have found the **first bad version**.

# Complexity

- Time complexity : **O(log n)**

- Space complexity : **O(1)**
